*Because RISC-V was not tedious enough*
A couple fast facts about x86:
* Is **little-endian**, this means that if we combine four bytes on a row to form a word, then it starts building from the small end up as it goes rightwards in the row
* Stores more memory on the stack as opposed to like a bunch of temp registers
* Variable-length instruction -- when assembled into machine code, instructions can be 1-16 bytes long.
	* RISC-V only allows 4-byte instructions.
* Way more common than RISC-V and other associated RISC architectures
# Memory Structure
* Similar to RISC
* Code
	* The program code itself, also called "text"
* Data
	* Static variables (also includes numbers, etc. that are just there), allocated when the program is started
* Heap
	* Dynamically allocated memory using `malloc`, freed with `free`
	* As more & more memory is allocated, it grows **upwards**.
* Stack
	* Local variables, stack frames.
	* As deeper & deeper function calls made, it grows **downwards**.
## Registers
* The basic principle is similar to RISC-V.
* Located on the CPU
	* Different from memory layout
* However, specific registers differ significantly. Unlike RISC-V, there are only **8** main general-purpose registers.
	* `eax`, `ebx`, `ecx`, `edx`, `esi`, `edi`: general-purpose
	* `esp`: Stack pointer, similar to `sp` in RISC-V
	* `ebp`: Base pointer, similar to `fp` in RISC-V
	* `esp`, `ebp` will take up much of future discussion
* We also have the instruction pointer register `eip`.
* Syntax:
	* Register references are preceded with a % sign: `%eax, %esp`
	* Immediates are preceded w/ a $ sign: `$1, $161, $0x4`
	* Memory references use parentheses and can have immediate effects: `8(%esp)` dereferences memory 8B above the address in ESP.
* While we're here we might as well talk about Assembly.
	* Instructions are composed of an opcode, followed by 0 or more operands.
	* The last operand is the destination
	* Add instruction only has 2 operands; destination is an input.
## Stack Layout
* Assume local variables always allocated on the stack. 
* Individual variables within stack frame are stored w/ first variable at the highest address.
# Calling Convention
* Before the function call, we are in the caller function. During the function call, we move into the callee function, and run through that. After the return, we return to the caller.
	* Arguments are pushed into the stack in reverse order, so `func(val1, val2, val3)` will push `val3` highest and `val1` lowest.
		* This is unlike RISC-V, which used registers.
	* Return values are received in `eax`. 
		* Similar to RISC-V, which passes return values in `a0 - a1`.
	* Which registers are caller-saved or callee-saved
		* *Callee-saved*: Callee must not change the value of the reg when returning
		* *Caller-saved*: Callee may overwrite the register w/o saving or restoring
* Here `ebp`, `eip`, `esp` are used to define a stack frame.
	* When calling a function, `ebp` and `esp` must shift to create a new stack frame for that function. `eip` must also be moved to the instruction in the callee
		* `esp` is the lowest point in the stack frame; everything below is undefined. `ebp` is the highest point; everything above is not part of the frame but is defined.
		* If you ever push onto a stack, need to update `esp`.
* **MOST IMPORTANT PART!!** Adding things to stack
	* First, add *arguments* onto the stack. Added in reverse order, with first arg at the bottom
	* Next, we want to *remember the old* `eip`. We push something called the *return instruction pointer* (`rip`) onto the stack, which will let us know where to return to.
	* We also want to *remember the old* `ebp`. This is the *saved frame pointer* (`sfp`) onto the stack, which reminds us where the previous frame was.
	* Now, we can update all of the registers with no problem.
	* Finally, we can move all *local variables* onto the stack.
	* When complete, we restore old work by popping stack and returning `eip = rip`, `ebp = sfp`. Popping the stack does our work for `esp`.
* Points which can lead to [[Memory Safety Vulnerability]] include overflowing some read value into `rip`.